In the next few videos,
we'll walk through a comprehensive example
of how data analytics is applied in
concert with more qualitative and
business analysis to help guide
a major strategic decision.
This case study illustrates
a number of things.
First, it shows how we apply
the idea of thinking backwards.
By way of review,
this means the following.
We start with the decision
we want to make.
We then determine what analysis
outputs would help make that decision.
We design the analysis that
creates those outputs.
We determine what data is needed for
analysis and how to get it.
And finally, we execute the analysis.
The example also illustrates how different
types of analytics can be used in
one larger effort, and
how quantitative and
qualitative considerations contribute
to business decision making.
Finally, it illustrates a couple of
ways in which data can be displayed and
presentation materials created.
In this video we'll tee
up the situation and
walk through the thought process
leading up to the analysis.
In the next video we'll walk
through the analysis itself.
And in a third video we'll see how the
results were constructed and presented.
Let's start by setting the context.
A technology company in a highly
competitive industry was at
a key strategic juncture.
They needed to grow their customer base,
but they felt that the existing
approach to customer acquisition
was too broad and unfocused.
There were a number of internal opinions
on how a new strategy should be focused.
Some felt the company should focus
more on younger customers and
set the stage for the future.
Others wanted to concentrate
on growing minority and
ethnic segments that reflected
increasing diversity in the market.
Still more proposed a strategy targeting
families that cut across age, race, and
ethnicity.
At the same time,
the company had to consider the impact of
any strategy on a set of key
metrics important to shareholders.
These included new customers added and
customers lost,
overall revenue, revenue per customer and
overall customer profitability.
The strategy needed to achieve
growth in the customer base but
couldn't sacrifice revenue or
customer profitability in the process.
Finally, the strategy
needed to be actionable.
There had to be a way to appropriately
target new customers using a combination
of mass media like television and radio as
well as direct marketing like email, mail,
or outbound calling.
The company was committed to a data driven
approach and wanted a comprehensive
analysis that could identify and
quantify a number of options for action.
They had a clear idea of
the decisions they wanted to make.
With this objective in mind, the nature
of the analysis outputs was considered.
Ultimately the analysis would drive
toward the creation of option summaries.
Perhaps one or
two slides that described each option and
a summary that compared those
options on key dimensions.
Each summary would need to show
how the option was constructed and
provide key metrics and other
information important to stakeholders.
A comprehensive analytic approach was
designed to produce the information
required for options summaries and
comparisons.
At the high level
the approach look like this,
first a way to segment
customers would be determined.
We'll get into more detail in a bit, but
this would involve the assessment of a
number of third party segmentation schemas
that would allow the company to link
internal data to external market data.
Secondly, the right geographic
segmentation method would be determined.
The company operated nationally
across many types of markets, but
some consolidation of markets would
be necessary to execute the strategy.
Furthermore, the team thought
that the customer segments could
be used to help inform the geographic
segmentation decision.
So the customer segments
would be used as inputs
to the geographic segmentation effort.
A combined segmentation approach
using customer characteristics and
geography would then be driven
into two parallel efforts.
The first would use internal data to
describe the current customer base and
to establish the historical performance
of customer segments in terms of
lifetime value.
The second would use external market data
to determine what the acquisition
opportunity was for each segment.
The internal and external analysis
streams would then converge
to construct complete
characterization of each option.
After consultation with key leaders,
it was determined that the following seven
potential strategies should be assessed.
The first four driven solely by metrics,
the other three driven by demographics.
The first strategy would seek to maximize
the total size of the customer base.
A second strategy would try and
maximize total revenue.
A third would attempt to
maximize revenue per customer.
A fourth strategy would maximize
customer profitability.
The fifth would focus on teens,
tweens, and young adults.
The sixth would focus on minority groups
like African-American, Hispanic, and
Asian communities.
And finally, the seventh
strategy would focus on families.
Before the team started to
execute on the analytic plan, and
inventory of potential data
sources was constructed.
Most of the external data required for
the analysis was expected to be
available via third-party sources.
Specifically by using tools related
to the segmentation schemas
that would be evaluated in step one.
Sources were identified for key pieces
of internal data as well, including
revenue information, cost drivers related
to products activity and contacts, and
other customer characteristics like
credit risk, tenure and status.
Additionally, there were various internal
documents and results of earlier analysis
that were assembled and reviewed to help
build context around the current state and
how certain future strategies
might be implemented.
At this point the team was confident that
it can accomplish a high quality analysis
that would be used to inform a business
decision around the acquisition strategy.
In our next video we'll
dig a little deeper and
see how the analysis was actually done.
See you then.